[doc] Add a note about Dune support to the manual. (#9875)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/practical-tools/utilities.rst

and similarly for other plugins.

Building a |Coq| project
------------------------

As of today it is possible to build Coq projects using two tools:

> - coq_makefile, which is distributed by Coq and it is based on generating a makefile,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- coq_makefile, which is distributed by Coq and is based on generating a makefile,
```

> - Dune, the standard OCaml build tool which since version 1.9 does support building of Coq libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Dune, the standard OCaml build tool, which, since version 1.9, supports building Coq libraries.
```

Building a |Coq| project with coq_makefile

> ------------------------------------------

Reviewer: I suggest making this a subsection (and the Dune part too).

```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

This will also require changing the sub-sections of this section to use the level of title below.

Author: How can we change that level?

     (name <module_prefix>)
     (public_name <package.lib_name>)
     (synopsis <text>)
     (modules <ordered_set_lang>)
     (libraries <ocaml_libraries>)
     (flags <coq_flags>))

This stanza will build all `.v` files in the given directory, wrapping
the library under ``<module_prefix>``. If you declare a
``<package.lib_name>`` a ``.install`` file for the library will be
generated; the optional ``<modules>`` field allows you to filter
the list of modules, and ``<libraries>`` allows to depend on ML
plugins. For the moment, Dune does rely on Coq's standard mechanisms
(such as ``COQPATH`` to locatee installed Coq libraries.

By default Dune will skip ``.v`` files present in subdirectories. In
order to enable the usual recursive organization of Coq projects add

.. code:: scheme

    (include_subdirs qualified)

to you ``dune`` file.

Once your project is set up, `dune build` will generate the
`pkg.install` files and all the files necessary for the installation
of your project.

.. example::

   A typical plugin stanza does look like:

.. code:: scheme

    (coqlib
     (name Equations) ; -R flag
     (public_name equations.Equations)
     (synopsis "Equations Plugin")

>      (libraries coq.plugins.extraction equations.plugin)

Reviewer: Since this is an example of a plugin, it would be nice to also show the dune file of the ML part.

Author: Thanks, done.

Author: I didn't manage to have example interact well with the code tho.

Reviewer: What do you mean?

Author: I mean the formatting seems not optimal, likely a silly thing. For example the line introducing the second stanza got absorbed by the code.

Author: Fixed it, the example looks good now; thanks @Zimmi48 for all the feedback!

>      (modules :standard \ IdDec NoCycle))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     (modules :standard \ IdDec NoCycle)) ; exclude some files that don't build
```

the library under ``<module_prefix>``. If you declare a
``<package.lib_name>`` a ``.install`` file for the library will be
generated; the optional ``<modules>`` field allows you to filter
the list of modules, and ``<libraries>`` allows to depend on ML
plugins. For the moment, Dune relies on Coq's standard mechanisms
(such as ``COQPATH``) to locate installed Coq libraries.

By default Dune will skip ``.v`` files present in subdirectories. In
order to enable the usual recursive organization of Coq projects add

.. code:: scheme

    (include_subdirs qualified)

to you ``dune`` file.

Once your project is set up, `dune build` will generate the
`pkg.install` files and all the files necessary for the installation
of your project.

.. example::

   A typical stanza for a Coq plugin is split into two parts. An OCaml build directive, which is standard Dune:

.. code:: scheme

    (library
     (name equations_plugin)
     (public_name equations.plugin)
     (flags :standard -warn-error -3-9-27-32-33-50)
     (libraries coq.plugins.cc coq.plugins.extraction))

    (rule
     (targets g_equations.ml)
     (deps (:pp-file g_equations.mlg))
     (action (run coqpp %{pp-file})))

>    And a Coq-specific part that depends on it via the ``libraries`` field:

Author: @Zimmi48 this is the line that seems wrong, let me try to understand it.

automatically compute the dependencies among the files part of the
project.

Building a |Coq| project with Dune

> ----------------------------------

Reviewer: Corresponding suggestion:

```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

> _note_: the canonical documentation for the Coq Dune extension is

Reviewer: Use `.. note::`

> maintained upstream; please refer to the Dune manual for updated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
maintained upstream; please refer to the `Dune manual <https://dune.readthedocs.io/>`_ for updated
```

information.

> Building a Coq development with Dune requires setting up a Dune

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building a Coq project with Dune requires setting up a Dune
```

project for your files. This involves adding a ``dune-project`` and

> ``pkg.opam`` file to the root, and providing ``dune`` files in the

Reviewer: I would add a note saying that `pkg.opam` can be empty.

directories your ``.v`` files are placed:

.. code:: scheme

    (coqlib
     (name <module_prefix>)
     (public_name <package.lib_name>)
     (synopsis <text>)
     (modules <ordered_set_lang>)
     (libraries <ocaml_libraries>)
     (flags <coq_flags>))

> This stanza will build all `.v` files on the given directory, wrapping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This stanza will build all `.v` files in the given directory, wrapping
```

the library under ``<module_prefix>``. If you declare a
``<package.lib_name>`` a ``.install`` file for the library will be

> generated; the optional ``<modules>`` field does allow you to filter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generated; the optional ``<modules>`` field allows you to filter
```

> the list of modules, and ``<libraries>`` allows to depend on ML plugins.

Reviewer: Maybe note that in the first version of the Dune support, the Coq libraries will be found with the usual Coq support for this, including `$COQPATH`.

> By default Dune will skip ``.v`` files present in subdirectories, in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default Dune will skip ``.v`` files present in subdirectories. In
```

> order to enable the usual recursive organization of Coq developments add

Reviewer: ```suggestion
order to enable the usual recursive organization of Coq projects, add
```

.. code:: scheme

    (include_subdirs qualified)

to you ``dune`` file.

> Once you setup is in place, `dune build` will generate the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your project is set up, `dune build` will generate the
```

or

```suggestion
Once your setup is in place, `dune build` will generate the
```

`pkg.install` files and all the files necessary for the installation

> of your development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of your project.
```
